+++
title = "Build and Deploy a Static Site in a Container Using Hugo"
date = "2022-07-27T02:04:06Z"
author = "Matthew"
authorTwitter = "" #do not include @
cover = ""
tags = ["LXC", "GIT", "HUGO"]
keywords = ["", ""]
description = " "
showFullContent = false
readingTime = false
hideComments = false
+++
## Why a Container?
Well I need some excuse to use my recycled homelab server. There are some more practicle reasons as well. It gives me the ability to develop remotely from all the PCs on my network by remoting in. I can selfhost the site on my local network!  
## Why Hugo?
I chose it because it generates super simple sites that I can easily maintain. Jekyll looks pretty interesting and can generate more complex sites with plugins. Maybe that will be attempt #2  
## Prerequisites
- A workable knowledge of linux and the command line
- Ability to figure out what directory you need to be in
- Some kind of hypervisor to create containers
- Knowledge of git
- A github account to to version control and host the site  

## Container Setup
Ceate a new LXC container (I chose unbuntu 20.04)  
- Caveat: The apt package manager that comes with Unbuntu has an ancient version of Hugo  
So I end up installing brew to get the latest version   

Login as root  

Add new user and password, Add to sudoers, Set the login shell  

```bash
useradd <username>
passwd <username>  
adduser <username> sudo
chsh -s /bin/bash <username>
```
Open a new ssh session with your new username  

Update the container
```bash
apt update
apt upgrade
```
Install curl 
```bash
apt install curl
```
Install git and configure  
```bash
apt install git
git config --global user.name "Firstname Lastname"
git config --global user.email "your@mail.com"
git config --list
```
Install brew - Optional depending on your package managers version of Hugo
```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```
Install Hugo
```bash
brew install hugo
```
## Create your site
Create new Hugo site
```bash
hugo new site thisismysitename
```
Add a theme -- I cloned the Repo instead of adding it as a submodule
```bash
git clone https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal.git themes/terminal
```
You should probably use this and add it as a submodule
```bash
git submodule add -f https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal.git themes/terminal
```

Copy the example site to the root dir of the site project
```bash
cp -r themes/terminal/exampleSite/* .
```

Build the site from project root
```bash
hugo -t terminal
```  
To host it on your local network  
```sh
hugo server --bind 0.0.0.0 --baseURL http://yourip:portnumber
```

Congo Rats! We have a boiler plate site.  

From here on out modify as you wish.


## Setting up GIT
I am still in the process of learning git version control. So don't take what I did from here on out as gospel.
A few things I could have done better:  
I ended up nesting my deployment repo within my source repo. Hugo allows you to change the /public directory where the built site is dumped. I also did not add my theme as a git submodule and it is not properly version controlled. I will have to go back and clean up both these issues.

Create two repositories on github. 
### Repo 1 (Deployment)
- Github has a feature which will automatically host and deploy sites
- Setup the github site using the github.io nomenclature
- EX) mszczeblewski.github.io
- This repo will hold all the files dumped to /public which is the built site
### Repo 2 (Source Control)
- This repo will be holding your source
- In the project root update the url in config.toml so it points to your github.io page 

Check out my github for an example on how I set it up.
 - [Depolyment Repo]
 - [Source Repo]
 
 [Source Repo]: <https://github.com/MSzczeblewski/blog> 
 [Depolyment Repo]: <https://github.com/MSzczeblewski/mszczeblewski.github.io>
 
## Usefull Git Commands
Tell git that the current directory is a git repository
```bash
git init
```
Tell git what is the url of the remote repository
```bash
git remote add origin <remote_url>
```
Grab the content of the remote repository
```bash
git fetch --all --prune
```
Check out the desired branch (master & main in my examples)
```bash
git checkout master
```
Add the new files to the current <branch>
```bash
git add -A .
```
Commit your changes
```bash
git commit -m "message here"
```
Upload changes back to the remote repository 
```bash
git push origin <branch>
```
